Manfred Mohr

Biography
Manfred Mohr was born in Pforzheim, Germany on June 8, 1938. He originally started out as an action painter, working with gold and silver, and jazz musician, playing saxophone and oboe. After being inspired by Professor Max Bense's information aesthetics, he delved into the world of computer-generated art. He began the process in 1969. He started his work by applying algorthimic patterns of repetition to his previous drawings. Mohr can be considered a pioneer in the world of generative art. He won the Prix Aris Electronica award at a festival in Austria, and later went on to lead a seminar at the University of Vincennes. From there, he exhibited many solo shows around the world. His work can be found in the Centre Pompidou in Paris, the Ludwig Museum in Cologne, the Museum of Modern Art in New York, and in other musesums in Montreal, Amsterdam, Seoul, Paris, Berlin, and Zurich. Most recently, has won awards like the ACM SIGGRAPH Distinguished Artist Award for Lifetime Achievement in Digital Art in 2013.

Digital Art Methods
Mohr's background in art and music is evident in his lyrical works. Here is how he himself describes his work, "The computer became a physical and intellectual extension in the process of creating my art. I write computer algorithms i.e. rules that calculate and then generate the work which could not be realized in any other way. My artistic goal is reached when a finished work can dissociate itself from its logical content and stand convincingly as an independent abstract entity." Mathematical and algorithmic methods that can be seen in Mohr's work include graph theory, involving verticies, arcs, and lines; the divisibility and dissection of a cube; functions involving square roots; and 4D, 5D and 6D hypercubes, which are figures with four or more dimensions containing the forms of square and cubes.


Gallery of Mohr's Work

Cubic Limit (1972-1977): This work was created in phases. First, Mohr created an alphabet using signs from the twelve lines of a cube. Statistics and rotations were used to modify these factors. In the second phase of this work, cubes were divided into two parts by one of the Cartesian planes. Each image of this grid then display independent rotations of the cube.

Baseline (2012-2013): This work is part of Mohr's Artificiata II collection, inspired by musical scores. The collection features a diagonal paths from a hypercube which are drawn at changes of dimension. In this particular movement of the work, Manford describes that it "contains random variations of speed and suites of stills, adding a musical rhythm to this work."

Space.Color.Motion (2002): At this point in his career, Mohr began to add color and motion to his previous algorithmic works. This work is in the boiler room, an actual exhibit, at the Contemporary Art Center in New York. The work features 6D animation, which upon each reload, a new set of angles and increments (based on time and date) are projected. 

Subsets (2005-2006): This work of Mohr's is center around the 11D hypercube. The algorithmic subset of cubes decides whether the color should be black or white. The green background fills the remainder of the space.

Parallel Reasonance (2009-2011): This work features "two randomly selected and superimposed 11-dimensional diagonal-paths," according to Mohr. He adds, "n calculated intervals, the black form interchanges with the colored background so that the background becomes black and the previously black form assumes a color.
 
Resources
Mohr, Manfred. "The Algorithm of Manfred Mohr." 2010. http://www.emohr.com/.
Compart. "Manfred Mohr." n.d. http://dada.compart-bremen.de/item/agent/13.
Caroll/Fletcher. "Manfred Mohr." n.d. http://www.carrollfletcher.com/artists/37-manfred-mohr/overview/.