Pascal Dombis was born in Metz, France in 1965 and currently is living and working in Paris. He graduated from INSA Lyon, one of the top science and technology universities in Europe, with an engineering degree. Right after graduating, Dombis began to pursue his love of art by taking computer art classes that summer at Tufts University. A year later, in 1988, he was included in a group exhibition at the Multi Media Art Gallery in New York City. In the years since, Dombis has been gaining international recognition and has held solo exhibitions at the Claudio Bottello Contemporary in Italy in 2011, Le Musee en Herbe in Paris in 2012 and the RAYGUN Art Projects in Australia in 2014.

Dombis' work is known for being unpredictable and dynamic. He creates his pieces by repeating simple algorithms over and over to create complicated designs. When he starts a piece, he doesn't have an end product in mind, but lets the work evolve from the algorithms that he uses. For example, he might start a piece with a straight line and use the computer to create variations. The possibilities are endless. This process is similar to the Surrealist movement known as the exquisite corpse. Dombis also has noted a similarity between his works and those of the Australian Aborigines' Songlines and Lucretius's atomist philosophy.

Dombis believes that its his job as an artist to confront the human viewer with their own primitive irrationality. He does this by creating irrationality in his pieces that is caused by the computer, a rational machine. When geometrics are used excessively in a binary system, the geometrics become irrational.

"What I am then interested in is to reach a point where affirmation and negation outdo each other, where uniqueness is no longer unique: a line which is not exactly straight, etc."

"Pascal Dombis." <i>ArtAndOnly.</i> N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Apr. 2017. <https://www.artandonly.com/artists/pascal-dombis/>.

"Pascal Dombis." Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, 24 Apr. 2017. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pascal_Dombis>. 
