Niels Henrik Abel was born on august 6 1802. His father was a politician who came from a long line of mininsters. Before serving as a politician he was a pastor. Abel's mother came from a a very wealthy family. 
While Abel's father helped and supported him, research largly suggests that his mother was very disinterested in his life. Abel at first grew up in wealth and was supported. His father would give him the ultiamte chance at his future.
Using his connections his father got the chance for one of his kids to attend the Cathedral School in Christinia. Orignally Abels brother was supposed to go but he became to depressed about leaving home that his father decieded to send niels instead.

Entering the school at just 13 years old, abel began to be mentored by Bernt Michael Holmboe the mathmatics director at the school. Holmboe fostered a love for math and learning in Abel through his mentorship. Eventually he gave abel a scholarship to attend a high quality university.
He graduated in 1822 from another school as the top mathmatician in norway. However before his graduation his father had insulted a prime politician in norweigin politics. This lead him to lose all political credablity and destoryed his plotical career, bankrupting his family, He died two years before Abels gradutation.
Abel lived with professors he knew that helped him out because of this.

Abel began to work for Norways most widly known math journal. After this he recvied money to go on a tour from a professor to travel to cobenhagen to meet other mathmiticans. While in copenhagen he met his future fiance Christine Klemp. After returning he was paid to study in christiana norway. He would publish several journals.
Abel was then offered a tour across europe. He went on it making several discoveries with well known mathmaticians. However his money ran short and he had to come home. Because he did not hit all of the cities the backers wanted Abels funding was cut. He had to take a loan just to live in norway. While in paris he contracted tuberculosis. Knowing his time was soon he went by sled to visit his fiance. 
He would rally to live past christmas but died shortly after on april 6 1828. Sadly the answer to his poverty came to late. Just two days after his death he recieved a letter saying that he was awared a position as a professor at the Uiversity of Berlin.